Add description of file delete (`unlink`) semantics (#220)
awslabs/mountpoint-s3: doc/SEMANTICS.md

Space allocation (`fallocate`, `posix_fallocate`) are not supported.

#### Deletes

File deletion (`unlink`) is planned but not yet supported (see [#78](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/issues/78)).
When `unlink` is implemented, the following semantics are proposed.

For files not yet committed to S3, the client will make a best effort to stop any inflight uploads,
and immediately remove the file from its directory.

> If there are any open file handles to the file, future writes to them will fail.

Reviewer: Alternatively, we can fail the unlink. It would fail faster since we don't have to cancel inflight uploads and probably less surprise?

Author: I hadn't considered this one.

Considering strict POSIX compliance, we should allow writing to continue (presumably also reading to continue if we supported that, with file handles able to see new content) after the `unlink`, and once these file handles are closed, the data is deleted from 'disk'.

We do want to try and be close to POSIX where feasible, so allowing `unlink` during write makes sense to me. Since we don't support reading files during writing, perhaps the better behavior to avoid surprise would be to allow writing to continue, with the bytes being discarded rather than the `write` operation returning EIO. However, I was concerned about one-way doors with this option and simply returning EIO is the simplest option for now. (Yes, allowing `unlink` to succeed is also a one-way door - but an intentional one.)

Author: FWIW, I am imagining this use case to be a very infrequent one. Thus, for customer applications that may try it (delete during write) we should fail in the way least likely to break applications and easy to understand what went wrong.

Author: Discussed offline - failing `unlink` for local files leaves open the path for implementing it closer to POSIX in future. We can implement this behavior as the initial case, and if there is demand we can extend the behavior.

Trying to handle the local files also presents complexity for now, so we can deliver `unlink` for remote files now and tackle local files later.

Thoughts @jamesbornholt?

Space allocation (`fallocate`, `posix_fallocate`) are not supported.

#### Deletes

File deletion (`unlink`) is planned but not yet supported (see [#78](https://github.com/awslabs/mountpoint-s3/issues/78)).
When `unlink` is implemented, the following semantics are proposed.

For files not yet committed to S3, the client will make a best effort to stop the file being uploaded.

- If the file was not yet opened for writing, the file entry will be deleted.

> - If a file is already open and being written to, the multipart upload will be cancelled and any future bytes written to the file handle will be discarded.

Reviewer 2: I think this is a bit too in the weeds (it requires you to know the difference between `mknod` and `open`). I'd just say something like:
> For files not yet committed to S3, the client will make a best effort to stop any inflight uploads, and immediately remove the file from its directory. If there are still open file handles to the file, future writes to them will fail.

Author: Thanks, that's much nicer for users of higher-level file interfaces.

Author: To clarify on behavior, I think we describe two different things - although I prefer your proposed behavior.

>future writes to [file handles] will fail.

In this case, we are saying after unlink that `libc::EIO` will be returned. I am happy with that, and if there's a use case we can update the logic in future to discard bytes with no error.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, we should definitely fail writes that we know won't be persisted.

> Where the file is already uploaded to S3,
> an unlink operation will _immediately_ perform the delete on S3 and unlink the Inode from its parent.
> 
> - If a file was open for reading locally, future reads to the file handle will fail with an IO error.
> - If a file was open for reading on another Mountpoint S3 process / host, future reads will fail with an IO error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For files already committed to S3, the client will _immediately_ delete the corresponding object from S3, and remove the file from its directory. If there are still open file handles to the file, future reads to them will fail. Because the object is immediately deleted from S3, future reads from other hosts will also fail.
```

### Directory operations

Basic read-only directory operations (`opendir`, `readdir`, `closedir`) are supported.

Renaming files and directories (`rename`, `renameat`) is not currently supported.

> File deletion (`unlink`) semantics are described under the file operations section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
File deletion (`unlink`) semantics are described in the [Deletes](#Deletes) section.
```
